README.md, before:

# SCBCN_ELM101
Introductory workshop to start learning Elm

## Defining a basic view
 - Create a file named main.elm in the src folder
 - Define a module called Test
    
    ``` 
    module Test exposing (..)
    ```
 - Import the Html module (only with div, txt and h1)
    
    ```
    import Html exposing (div, text, h1)
    ```
 - Create a simple view function that renders a text in a h1 inside a div.
    
    ```
    view model =
        div[][
            h1[][text model]
        ]
    ```
 - Create a main function that calls view
    
    ```
    main =
        view "Hello Barcelona!"
    ```
 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```

## Using a model
 - Create a type alias called Model with a name (String) and a counter (Int)

    ```
    type alias Model =
        { name : String
        , counter : Int
        }
    ```
 - Create a value called initialModel with some data

    ```
    initialModel = {name = "ELM 101", counter = 3}
    ```
 - Use the model to render the view

    ```
    view model =
        div [][
            h1 [][text model.name]
            , div [][text (toString model.counter)]
        ]
    ```

 - Pass initialModel as a parameter to the view function in main

    ```
    main =
        view initialModel
    ```
 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```

## Updating counter
 - Create two buttons (Up and down)

    ```
    import Html exposing (div, text, h1, button)
    ```
    ```
    view model =
        div [][
            h1 [][text model.name]
            , div [][text (toString model.counter)]
            , button [][text "UP"]
            , button [][text "DOWN"]
        ]
    ```
 - Create a union type with two cases, Up and down

    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
    ```
 - Import Html.Events

    ```
    import Html.Events exposing (..)
    ```

 - Add the onClick event to both buttons

    ```
    , button [onClick Up][text "UP"]
    , button [onClick Down][text "DOWN"]    
    ```

 - Create an update function that gets a msg and a model and updates the model accordingly using pattern matching

    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> {model | counter = model.counter + 1}
            Down -> {model | counter = model.counter - 1}
    ```

 - Import Html.App

    ```
    import Html.App exposing (..)
    ```

 - Use Html.beginnerProgram

    ```
    main =
        Html.App.beginnerProgram
        {
            model = initialModel
            , view = view
            , update = update
        }
    ```

 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```     

## Generate a random number

 - Import Random module

    ```
    import Random
    ```
 - Create a function to generate random numbers

    ```
    randomNumber =
        Random.int 0 100
    ```

 - Change main to use *program*
    ```
    main =
        Html.App.program
        {
            init = (initialModel, Cmd.none)
            , view = view
            , update = update
            , subscriptions = (\model -> Sub.none)
        }
    ```

 - Update the update function to return Cmd.none en each case
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Create a new case (GetRandom) in the Action union
    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
        | GetRandom
    ```

 - Add a new branch (GetRandom) in the update pattern matching
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Add a new button to get the random number
    ```
    , button [onClick GetRandom][text "RANDOM"]
    ```
    
 - Create a new case (Update of Int) in the Action union
    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
        | GetRandom
        | Update Int
    ```

- Add a new branch (Update) in the update pattern matching
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Cmd.none)
            Update x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Update the GetRandom branch in the update pattern match to return the command needed
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Random.generate Update randomNumber)
            Update x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```   

## Interacting with the keyboard
 - Install Keyboard package
    ```
    elm package install elm-lang Keyboard
    ```

 - Import Keyboard
    ```
    import Keyboard
    ```

 - Create new case (KeyMsg of KeyMsg Keyboard.KeyCode) in Action union
    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
        | GetRandom
        | Update Int
        | KeyMsg Keyboard.KeyCode
    ```

 - Create subscriptions function
    ```
    subscriptions model =
        Sub.batch[Keyboard.presses KeyMsg]
    ```

 - Add new branch in the update pattern match
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Random.generate Update randomNumber)
            Update x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
            KeyMsg x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Update Html.program to use the subscriptions function
    ```
    main =
        Html.App.program
        {
            init = (initialModel, Cmd.none)
            , view = view
            , update = update
            , subscriptions = subscriptions
        }
    ```

 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```

Commit message:

General description of the workshop.

README.md, after:

# SCBCN_ELM101
Introductory workshop to start learning Elm

## Description
In this workshop we´re going to create a very simple application but that shows the main characteristics of Elm and the Elm Architecture.

The steps we´re going to follow are the following ones:
 - Defining a basic view: Create a view that displays a message
 - Using a model: Create a view that displays the contents of a model (name (String) and counter (Int))
 - Updating counter: Add two buttons (Up and Down) to change the value of the counter. (Hint: you will need to use Html.App.beginnerProgram)
 - Generate a random number: Add a button to display a random number (Hint: you will need to use Html.App.programm)
 - Interacting with the keyboard: Display the key code number when a key is pressed (Hint: you will need to use subscriptions)

If you want to try to solve the exercises without any help, please don´t read the next sections.

## Defining a basic view
 - Create a file named main.elm in the src folder
 - Define a module called Test
    
    ``` 
    module Test exposing (..)
    ```
 - Import the Html module (only with div, txt and h1)
    
    ```
    import Html exposing (div, text, h1)
    ```
 - Create a simple view function that renders a text in a h1 inside a div.
    
    ```
    view model =
        div[][
            h1[][text model]
        ]
    ```
 - Create a main function that calls view
    
    ```
    main =
        view "Hello Barcelona!"
    ```
 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```

## Using a model
 - Create a type alias called Model with a name (String) and a counter (Int)

    ```
    type alias Model =
        { name : String
        , counter : Int
        }
    ```
 - Create a value called initialModel with some data

    ```
    initialModel = {name = "ELM 101", counter = 3}
    ```
 - Use the model to render the view

    ```
    view model =
        div [][
            h1 [][text model.name]
            , div [][text (toString model.counter)]
        ]
    ```

 - Pass initialModel as a parameter to the view function in main

    ```
    main =
        view initialModel
    ```
 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```

## Updating counter
 - Create two buttons (Up and down)

    ```
    import Html exposing (div, text, h1, button)
    ```
    ```
    view model =
        div [][
            h1 [][text model.name]
            , div [][text (toString model.counter)]
            , button [][text "UP"]
            , button [][text "DOWN"]
        ]
    ```
 - Create a union type with two cases, Up and down

    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
    ```
 - Import Html.Events

    ```
    import Html.Events exposing (..)
    ```

 - Add the onClick event to both buttons

    ```
    , button [onClick Up][text "UP"]
    , button [onClick Down][text "DOWN"]    
    ```

 - Create an update function that gets a msg and a model and updates the model accordingly using pattern matching

    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> {model | counter = model.counter + 1}
            Down -> {model | counter = model.counter - 1}
    ```

 - Import Html.App

    ```
    import Html.App exposing (..)
    ```

 - Use Html.beginnerProgram

    ```
    main =
        Html.App.beginnerProgram
        {
            model = initialModel
            , view = view
            , update = update
        }
    ```

 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```     

## Generate a random number

 - Import Random module

    ```
    import Random
    ```
 - Create a function to generate random numbers

    ```
    randomNumber =
        Random.int 0 100
    ```

 - Change main to use *program*
    ```
    main =
        Html.App.program
        {
            init = (initialModel, Cmd.none)
            , view = view
            , update = update
            , subscriptions = (\model -> Sub.none)
        }
    ```

 - Update the update function to return Cmd.none en each case
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Create a new case (GetRandom) in the Action union
    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
        | GetRandom
    ```

 - Add a new branch (GetRandom) in the update pattern matching
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Add a new button to get the random number
    ```
    , button [onClick GetRandom][text "RANDOM"]
    ```

 - Create a new case (Update of Int) in the Action union
    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
        | GetRandom
        | Update Int
    ```

- Add a new branch (Update) in the update pattern matching
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Cmd.none)
            Update x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Update the GetRandom branch in the update pattern match to return the command needed
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Random.generate Update randomNumber)
            Update x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```   

## Interacting with the keyboard
 - Install Keyboard package
    ```
    elm package install elm-lang Keyboard
    ```

 - Import Keyboard
    ```
    import Keyboard
    ```

 - Create new case (KeyMsg of KeyMsg Keyboard.KeyCode) in Action union
    ```
    type Action 
        = Up
        | Down
        | GetRandom
        | Update Int
        | KeyMsg Keyboard.KeyCode
    ```

 - Create subscriptions function
    ```
    subscriptions model =
        Sub.batch[Keyboard.presses KeyMsg]
    ```

 - Add new branch in the update pattern match
    ```
    update msg model =
        case msg of
            Up -> ({model | counter = model.counter + 1}, Cmd.none)
            Down -> ({model | counter = model.counter - 1}, Cmd.none)
            GetRandom -> (model, Random.generate Update randomNumber)
            Update x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
            KeyMsg x -> ({model | counter = x}, Cmd.none)
    ```

 - Update Html.program to use the subscriptions function
    ```
    main =
        Html.App.program
        {
            init = (initialModel, Cmd.none)
            , view = view
            , update = update
            , subscriptions = subscriptions
        }
    ```

 - Create main.js

    ```
    elm make main.elm --output main.js
    ```
